Add private beta LLM Gateway docs [closes ENT-1059] (#3999)
langchain-ai/docs: src/langsmith/llm-gateway-coding-agents.mdx

</Note>

Configure coding agents to route LLM calls through the LLM Gateway, giving your organization cost controls, observability, and audit trails on developer LLM usage without changing agent code.

Most coding agents let you override the LLM provider endpoint via environment variables or configuration files. By pointing them at the LLM Gateway instead of the provider directly, all LLM calls flow through the gateway. The gateway authenticates the caller, resolves the actual provider key from workspace secrets, enforces policies, and traces the call. No agent code changes required.

## Prerequisites

- Your [Organization admin](/langsmith/rbac#organization-admin) has completed [Admin setup](/langsmith/llm-gateway-admin-setup).
- You have a workspace-scoped [LangSmith API key](/langsmith/create-account-api-key) with `gateway:invoke` and `workspaces:read` [permissions](/langsmith/organization-workspace-operations).
- You have set the [gateway environment variables](/langsmith/llm-gateway-quickstart#1-set-environment-variables) in your terminal.

## Supported clients

> - Claude Code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Claude Code CLI
```

hidden: true
---

<Note>
**Private beta:** The LLM Gateway is in private beta. [Sign up for the waitlist](https://www.langchain.com/langsmith-llm-gateway-waitlist) to get access.
</Note>

Configure coding agents to route LLM calls through the LLM Gateway, giving your organization cost controls, observability, and audit trails on developer LLM usage without changing agent code.

Most coding agents let you override the LLM provider endpoint via environment variables or configuration files. By pointing them at the LLM Gateway instead of the provider directly, all LLM calls flow through the gateway. The gateway authenticates the caller, resolves the actual provider key from workspace secrets, enforces policies, and traces the call. No agent code changes required.

## Prerequisites

- Your [Organization admin](/langsmith/rbac#organization-admin) has completed [Admin setup](/langsmith/llm-gateway-admin-setup).
- You have a workspace-scoped [LangSmith API key](/langsmith/create-account-api-key) with `gateway:invoke` and `workspaces:read` [permissions](/langsmith/organization-workspace-operations).

> ## Supported clients

Reviewer 2: ## Supported clients

  - Claude Code
  - Codex CLI
  - Gemini CLI
  - Cursor (partial support — OpenAI-model traffic only)
  - Deep Agents

Reviewer: We don't support cursor at all currently. We have only attempted support and have not gotten prompts to work.

- Claude Code CLI
- Codex CLI
- Gemini CLI
- Deep Agents

## Environment variables

> All CLI coding agents use the same base set of environment variables. Set these in your terminal or add them to `~/.zshrc` to persist across sessions:

Reviewer 2: All CLI coding agents read from the same shared set of environment variables. Export these in your terminal or add them to `~/.zshrc`  to persist across sessions:

Reviewer: No need to change this. "export" and "set" mean the same thing in this context.

    ```
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="Anthropic SDK">
    ```python
    import os

    import anthropic

    client = anthropic.Anthropic(
        base_url="https://gateway.smith.langchain.com/anthropic",
        api_key=os.environ["LANGSMITH_API_KEY"],
    )
    message = client.messages.create(
        model="claude-sonnet-4-6",
        max_tokens=1024,
        messages=[{"role": "user", "content": "Say hello!"}],
    )
    print(message.content[0].text)
    ```
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

## Company-wide deployment

For organizations rolling the gateway out to all developers, distribute the configuration through MDM (mobile device management) or a shared shell profile. The key pieces to distribute are:

1. The gateway base URL (`https://gateway.smith.langchain.com`).
1. A workspace-scoped [LangSmith API key](/langsmith/create-account-api-key) per user (or per team, depending on your policy granularity).
1. The Codex `config.toml` if your organization uses Codex.

Provider API keys stay centralized in LangSmith workspace secrets.

## Verify the setup

After configuring a coding agent, make a test call and confirm that:

1. The call succeeds (the agent gets a response).

> 1. A trace appears in the **gateway** tracing project in your LangSmith workspace (or in the project specified by the `Langsmith-Project` header if one was set).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. A trace appears in the `gateway` and `gateway-<short_api_key>-<api_key_id>` tracing projects in your LangSmith workspace.
```

> If the call fails with a `403`, check that your API key's role includes `gateway:invoke` and `workspaces:read`. If it fails with a `500` mentioning a missing provider key, ask your org admin to add the provider's key to workspace secrets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the call fails with a `403`, check that your API key's role includes `gateway:invoke` and `workspaces:read`. If it fails with a `400` mentioning a missing provider key, ask your org admin to add the provider's key to workspace secrets.
```
